*** THIS IS A WORK IN PROGRESS - DO NOT USE YET! ***

The nscheck tool checks for .ns file corruption related to HELP-661:
on certain platforms TBD (involving certain Linux kernel versions and
VMWare) the .ns file is not properly initialized to 0s by the o/s, and
the resulting garbage hashtable entries cause an assertion failure.

NOTE: the following assumes that we have identified the underlying
problem and have a fix from Ubuntu and/or VMWare. It is not advisable
to attempt any recovery until this is the case as once the problem
occurs it is reproducible.


DETECTION FOR 2.6 USERS

The damage is introduced at the time the .ns file is created. The
underlying issue is sensitive to the pattern of writes to the .ns
file, and since the .ns file is a hashtable, the occurrence of the
issue is very dependent on the details of the collections and indexes
created. However, given the right conditions, the occurrence of the
problem is reproducible; for example, it might occur every time a db
is restored from backup, or otherwise created from scratch; and if it
occurs on one node of a replica set it is likely to occur on
others. Once the problem has occurred, mongod will fail with a fatal
assertion on certain accesses to the namespace.

* fassert, with log signatures as follows:
...

* use nscheck to check the .ns file to verify the problem (see below)


DETECTION FOR USERS UPGRADING FROM 2.4 TO 2.6

The problem has been observed to cause a fatal assertion upon startup
immediately after upgrading from 2.4. to 2.6. This indicates that the
problem can occur under 2.4 and go undetected, as 2.6 adds assertion
checks.

* fassert upon upgrade to 2.6, with the log signatures as listed
  above.

* use nscheck to check the .ns file prior to upgrade (see below)


DETECTION FOR 2.4 USERS

As detailed above, the issue is believed to occur under 2.4 as well,
but may go undetected as 2.4 lacks some checks that were introduced in
2.6. More work is required to determine whether the issue may cause
more subtle problems.

* use nscheck to check the .ns file (see below).


RECOVERY PROCEDURE

* Upon detecting a problem customer should immediately contact MongoDB
  support and we will direct them through the following steps.

* First step is to implement fixes TBD from Ubuntu and/or VMWare; do
  not proceed with recovery until this has been done, as the problem
  is likely to recur without this.

* For 2.4 users (who are not upgrading at the moment), until we
  determine that this issue causes problems under 2.4, the most
  conservative course is to stop here, and do not do any repair at
  this point.

* Obtain *all* .ns files from each node of the affect cluster and run
  nscheck on each to determine the health, or ask the customer to do
  this.

* If there is a healthy node (defined as: nscheck declares *all* .ns
  files to be OK), resyncing from that node is an option.

* If there is no healthy node, or resyncing is otherwise an
  undesirable option for the customer, instruct the customer to

  * shut down mongod
  * back up the entire database
  * use nscheck with the --repair option to repair the .ns files
  * restart mongod.


USING THE NSCHECK TOOL

NAME
    nscheck - tool to examine .ns file for certain kinds of corruption

SYNOPSIS
    python nscheck.py [--detail] [--repair] file_or_directory ...

    Each file listed on the command line is checked for errors. If a
    directory is specified it is recursively traversed to find .ns
    files to check. For example,

        python nscheck.py $dbpath

    will check all .ns files in $dbpath.

    By default, for each file a line is printed indicating either that
    it is OK, or if not listing the number of errors found.

    The error check can be run on a live system, with a very small
    chance of a temporary false ERROR report if a namespace (db,
    collection, index) is being added while nscheck is running. Run it
    a second time to check for false positives.

    The repair procedure *must* be run with mongod shut down.

    --detail

        With this option a line is printed for each non-empty entry in
        the .ns file.  For valid entries the namespace name is
        printed. For invalid entries "ERROR" is displayed.

    --repair

        Repairs invalid entries by zeroing them. To use this mongod
        *must not* be running.

        
